- Flow of HTML

A browser will render the elements of an HTML document that has no CSS from left to right, top to bottom, in the same order as they exist in the document. 
This is called the flow of elements in HTML.

CSS includes properties that change how a browser positions elements.

five properties for adjusting the position of HTML elements in the browser:

position
display
z-index
float
clear

- Position

The default position of an element can be changed by setting its position property. The position property can take one of four values:

static - the default value (it does not need to be specified)
relative
absolute
fixed

- Position: Relative

This value allows you to position an element relative to its default static position on the web page.

.box-bottom {
  background-color: DeepSkyBlue;
  position: relative;
}

This is not enough, I need to specify the valid offset properties:

top - moves the element down.
bottom - moves the element up.
left - moves the element right.
right - moves the element left.

Units for offset properties can be specified in pixels, ems, or percentages. 
Note that offset properties will not work if the value of the element's position property is the default static.

- Position: Absolute

When an element's position is set to absolute all other elements on the page will ignore the element and act like it is not present on the page. 
The element will be positioned relative to its closest positioned parent element.

.box-bottom {
  background-color: DeepSkyBlue;
  position: absolute;
  top: 20px;
  left: 50px;
}

- Position: Fixed

We can fix an element to a specific position on the page (regardless of user scrolling) by setting its position to fixed.
Like in some advertising banner.

.box-bottom {
  background-color: DeepSkyBlue;
  position: fixed;
  top: 20px;
  left: 50px;
}

Combine fixed and relative position, I can hide a box under an other. 
The box hidden (fixed) is shown when I scroll down the page while the other (relative) cover it.

- Z-Index






