typography, the art of arranging text on a page. 
With css I can style fonts to make them legible and appealing and how to add external fonts to your web pages.

- Font Family

To change the typeface of text on your web page, you can use the font-family property.

h1 {
  font-family: Garamond;
}

When setting typefaces on a web page, keep the following points in mind:

1) The font specified in a stylesheet must be installed on a user’s computer in order for that font to display.

2) The default typeface for all most browsers is Times New Roman. 
You may be familiar with this typeface if you have ever used a formatted word processor.

3) It’s a good practice to limit the number of typefaces used on a web page to 2 or 3.

4) When the name of a typeface consists of more than one word, it must be enclosed in double quotes 
(otherwise it will not be recognized), like so:

h1 {
  font-family: "Courier New";
}

- Font Weight

It’s common to bold important headings or keywords. In CSS, we can style bold text with the font-weight property.

If we want to bold text in a web page, we can set the font-weight to bold.

p {
  font-weight: bold;
}

If we want to ensure that text is not bold, we can set the font-weight to normal.

p {
  font-weight: normal;
}

By default, the font-weight of most text elements is set to normal. 
Some elements, like headers, have built-in bold styling. 
A good approach is to check to see if the the text element has any default styling, and use the font-weight property accordingly.

- Font Weight II

The font-weight property can also be assigned a number value to style text on a numeric scale ranging from 100 to 900. 
Valid values are multiples of 100 within this range such as 200 or 500.

When using numeric weights, there are a number of default font weights that we can use:

400 is the default font-weight of most text.
700 signifies a bold font-weight.
300 signifies a light font-weight.

header {
  font-weight: 800;
}

footer {
  font-weight: 200;
}

Here, the header would appear as a deep bold, while the footer would appear rather light.

It’s important to note that not all fonts can be assigned a numeric font-weight. 
You can look up the font you are using to see which font-weight values are available.

- Font Style

You can also italicize text with the font-style property.

h3 {
  font-style: italic;
}

The italic value causes text to appear in italics. 
The font-style property also has a normal value which is the default.

- Word Spacing

You can also increase the spacing between words in a body of text, technically known as word spacing.

To do so, you can use the word-spacing property:

h1 {
  word-spacing: 0.3em;
}

The default amount of space between words is usually 0.25em.

- Letter Spacing

he technical term for adjusting the spacing between letters is called “kerning”. 
Kerning can be adjusted with the letter-spacing property in CSS.

h1 {
  letter-spacing: 0.3em;
}

Like word spacing, it’s not common to increase the kerning in text, but sometimes it enhances the readability of uppercase text.

- Text Transformation























